Python 2 had another way of formatting
strings, called string interpolation.
Just a reminder here, that if you want to download the slides, you can do so. All the
details are right here in this bonus video.
Right down at the bottom of this course. The very last video in fact, in the course. So just watched that video,
it's got all the details
you need, to be able to download those slides. if you want to do that and be able to access them offline
What I'm going to do is create a new file.
We're going to call that
interpolation.
Now the Python 2 formatting operator is the % and
it's followed in the string by a letter,
to indicate how the formatting should
work. So I'm going to start by typing age = 24 on line 1.
Line 2, I'm going to type print parentheses double quote,
or quotes rather,
My age is, and the percent sign, as I mentioned, d years,
and a closing double quote space, and % age, and closing right parenthesis. So here the %d will
be replaced by an integer value that's
provided after the string, following
another % character. So if we run
that, just to confirm that it works,
and there's the output: My age is 24 years. Now if
you wanted to inject a float into a
string we'd use %f, and then we'll
have to provide a string, and to provide
a string we'd use %s. Let's have
a look at both of those, with some code.
I'm going to start on line 4 by typing major
= "years". Line 5 minor = "months"
and then I continue typing on line 6, print
double quotes My age is %d
space %s comma %d space %s
and then our double quote, and then outside of that
I'm gonna put in parentheses, age, major, 6, minor,
and the two closing right parentheses. And we'll
continue on with an example using PI
again on line 7, print parentheses double
quotes Pi is approximately %f
double quote and the % again, parentheses 22 divided by 7 and two right parentheses.
And I forgot to put the percent sign, of
course, and we need to do that on line 6.
Okay. So starting on line 6, the first
%d is replaced by the first
variable, age, then the first %s is
replaced by the string variable, major.
The second %d is replaced by the
value 6 and the final %s
is replaced by the string variable, minor.
Replacement is strictly one value at a
time, from left to right, with none of the
flexibility offered by Python 3's
replacement fields. So moving on to line
7, we've used %f to represent the floating-point result.
So if we run this now, and you see we get the relevant results.
Alright, so now that we've run
that, you can also specify the precision
of the number. What I'm going to do is
duplicate line 7, then we'll add
add the precision as well. And the way we
do that, instead of just putting %f there,
we change the percent. We type
60.50 to specify the precision and then we run that.
You can see we get the, basically, a similar
result to when we were using a
replacement field. So as well as %d, %s
and %f, we can also use %x to display
numbers in hexadecimal, %o for
octal and %e for scientific
notation - along the lines of one
1.23456e+09, for example. Now there are more modifiers
and conversion types, and these are
presented in tables in the Python Docs.
So I'll just quickly load that up and
show you that link.
So check this out for more information on this page.
Once again, though, I've mentioned these
so that you'll understand them when reading
code from the internet, and if you end up
using Python 2. You shouldn't be using
these in Python 3 code. Alright, so let's
move onto the next video, which is a
quick summary of what we've been through in this section.
See you in the next
video.